bettervideos.md, before:

---
title: Document Center
---

# Better Videos for Instruction
###### by Brian Foster for IDD Fall 2019

### Description
If you are dissatisfied with attempts to add video to your Canvas shells for lecture, for announcements, for introductions, and more - join me for an explanation of why some videos look and sound better than others. I will answer questions! I will demonstrate in-person. We will practice each step of the production - from shooting, to trimming or editing, to uploading and posting to Canvas.

### Prep

Here are some things that I want to talk about tomorrow.
- Put the camera between you and the brightest light source.
- The more light there is, the less grainy of an image you get, and often the better frame rate that you get.
- You can upload directly to YouTube from your phone, either iOS or Android.
- Both iOS and Android have easy ways to trim your videos.
- Lapel mics are wonderful, but your iPhone gets great audio too!
- Zoom is a wonderful tool for screen capture as well as meeting with students, and I should **definitely** show it off tomorrow.
- Can you post to canvas from your phone? Absolutely you can, but it is a terrible experience!!!
- So, the YouTube app will let you record directly from your phone, trim it, add effects, and then upload it. It will let you set it as unlisted so that it isn't publicly visible. Then, you can look at the video, click Share, then paste the link as a new link in an announcement or assignment. *I think this is the best option for us.*
- I definitely want to talk about my methods, how I set my videos up.
- I want to talk about Epic Pen and OBS.

### Structure of the Talk
**Part One**
* Introduce myself and explain why I am up here talking about videos.
  * Why are videos useful? (Let us discuss)
* Why is my audience here?
  * What do *they* want to learn?
  
**Part Two**
* Talk about the stuff up there in prep.

**Part Three**
* Hands-on Practice (This might also be part of Part Two.)

### Links
[Using Epic Pen to Draw on the Screen](https://youtu.be/cs7p5qlubHk?t=360)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cs7p5qlubHk?start=360" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[A Video Blog for the Summer Jam Practicum](https://youtu.be/6gQUqkUKnkg)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6gQUqkUKnkg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Using OBS and a Webcam](https://youtu.be/7cqfYVy_AqU)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7cqfYVy_AqU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Adding more notes to Prep

bettervideos.md, after:

---
title: Document Center
---

# Better Videos for Instruction
###### by Brian Foster for IDD Fall 2019

### Description
If you are dissatisfied with attempts to add video to your Canvas shells for lecture, for announcements, for introductions, and more - join me for an explanation of why some videos look and sound better than others. I will answer questions! I will demonstrate in-person. We will practice each step of the production - from shooting, to trimming or editing, to uploading and posting to Canvas.

### Prep

Here are some things that I want to talk about tomorrow.
- Of course I can talk about "How To Make The Most Amazing Video" but this is not that talk.
  - this talk is "How to Make Good Videos *Easily*" because if it is too much work, you won't do it.
- Put the camera between you and the brightest light source.
- The more light there is, the less grainy of an image you get, and often the better frame rate that you get.
- Contrast between the subject and the background creates a more striking effect. Movement on the screen is lovely.
- Don't forget to take a breath! When you need to splice together several clips, you want it to feel natural, not rushed.
- You can upload directly to YouTube from your phone, either iOS or Android.
- Both iOS and Android have easy ways to trim your videos (The YouTube app works great!).
- Lapel mics are wonderful, but your iPhone gets great audio too!
- Zoom is a wonderful tool for screen capture as well as meeting with students, and I should **definitely** show it off tomorrow.
- Can you post to canvas from your phone? Absolutely you can, but it is a terrible experience!!!
- So, the YouTube app will let you record directly from your phone, trim it, add effects, add background music, and then upload it. It will let you set it as unlisted so that it isn't publicly visible. Then, you can look at the video, click Share, then paste the link as a new link in an announcement or assignment. *I think this is the best option for us.*
- I definitely want to talk about my methods, how I set my videos up.
  - what are those methods, Brian?
  - I record my in-class lecture with screen capture and my voice. I use Epic Pen to write on the screen.
  - I use a webcam in my office when I am doing "talk to the student" videos.
  - I just talk to the camera when I am trying to have a "conversation" with my students.
- I want to talk about Epic Pen and OBS.

### Structure of the Talk
**Part One**
* Introduce myself and explain why I am up here talking about videos.
  * Why are videos useful? (Let us discuss)
* Why is my audience here?
  * What do *they* want to learn?
  
**Part Two**
* Talk about the stuff up there in prep.

**Part Three**
* Hands-on Practice (This might also be part of Part Two.)

### Links
[Using Epic Pen to Draw on the Screen](https://youtu.be/cs7p5qlubHk?t=360)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cs7p5qlubHk?start=360" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[A Video Blog for the Summer Jam Practicum](https://youtu.be/6gQUqkUKnkg)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6gQUqkUKnkg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Using OBS and a Webcam](https://youtu.be/7cqfYVy_AqU)
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7cqfYVy_AqU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
