resume.md, before:

My name is Brian Foster. I have been studying, teaching, and working in the Interactive 3D field since 2013. I am passionate about this field of work because I enjoy creating something from nothing. I want to work on a project that will be remembered, the way that I remember Half-Life 2 or Dishonored. I want to create adventures like I found in Zelda: Breath of the Wild. Perhaps we can work together in the future!

# Programs:

I have a significant amount of experience in the **Unity 3D** game engine. I teach many classes for it, I have created many projects using it, and I have been a part of Certiport's certification team.
When I model I use **3DS Max**. I teach my Game Graphics class **Substance Designer** and I love it. In addition to programming in **C#** I teach classes in **Swift** and **C++**. Content creation is made easier with Adobe products such as **Photoshop**, **Premiere Pro**, and **Audition**.

# Work History

## [ButlerCC](https://www.butlercc.edu/info/201155/interactive-digital-and-3d-technology) - August 2014 to Present

- Interactive 3D adjunct professor - Fall 2014 to Fall 2016
	- Overhauled **Motion Capture** and **Interactive Scripting**
	- Created **Game Design 1 & 2**
- Interactive 3D professor - Spring 2017 to Present
	- Added **Virtual Reality**, **Mobile Game Development**, and **Mobile App Development**
	- Overhauled **Game Graphics** and **Beginning C++**
- Faculty Development Team - Fall 2015 to Present
	- Created and taught about 
		- Creating Hand-Written Videos
		- The Importance of Rigor
		- Teaching with Small Groups
		- [Making Better Videos](http://brianisbrilliant.com/bettervideos)


## [Quickdraw Studios](http://quickdrawstud.io/) - October 2015 to October 2017

- Co-founder, CTO
	- Developed & released **Gnome Wars** for The Hopping Gnome Brewery - October 2015
        - Used Unity and C# on this 6-month project. 4-player local co-op brawler.
	- Developed [**Riverfest: Sunny Days**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7TzLhonLQy8) - May 2016
        - Built this prototype in a weekend using Unity and C# for mobile devices.
	- Developed & released [**Pac-Matano**](https://www.facebook.com/events/district-marketplace/pac-matano/1070569443022550/) - June 2016
        - Used Unity and C# and a map API for a location-based experience similar to Pokemon Go, which came out a couple weeks after our game. The idea was developed at Riverfest Hackathon ICT 2016.
	- Developed & released **Ballot Battle** for The Joy of Voting - October 2016
        - Used Unity and C# to build another location-based experience.
	- Developed & released [**Trivia Nights**](https://www.quickdrawtrivia.com/) - 2016-2017
        - Used Unity and C# to create a Trivia Night Hosting app for the Clover registers that ran on Android.
	- Developed & released [**Space Slam**](https://store.steampowered.com/app/568480/Space_Slam/) - September 2016
        - I worked on some of the effects for this game, and did much of the preparation for launch on the PSVR, which did not cross the finish line in to production. Still, released for SteamVR on Steam. I also promoted the game at events like [XPOFest](https://twitter.com/gamesxpo), built promotional material and web pages, populated the steam web page, and sorted out the logistics behind uploading to Steam.
	- Developed **Sidewallz** Website & Product Customizer
        - Spent time learning Shopify's API and three.js to develop a website for a local business.
    - Developed and released [Focus Monitored](http://quickdrawstud.io/focusmonitored/), a focusing alarm app.
        - Built the app, published to the App Store, and built the webpage.
	- Unpublished Home Customization Idle Game
        - Built prototypes and design documents.
	- Unpublished Drink-around-the-Map game
        - Built design documents and sales pitch.
	- Consulted for Builders Plus, VR exploration of construction sites, which later morphed into [Grit](https://www.gritvirtual.com)
        - Imported BIM worksites and drone footage photogrammetry into Unity for use with the HTC Vive. Cleaned up projects from Autodesk Revit for smooth framerate and reasonable collision in VR. Built a heatmap of user's viewpoints and locations.
	


## [Certiport ](https://certiport.pearsonvue.com/Certifications/Unity)

Subject Matter Expert for Job Training Analysis and Standard Setting on 

- Unity Certified Artist: Associate - Jan 2021
- Unity Certified Artist: User - May 2020
- Unity Certified VR Developer - May 2020
- Unity Certified User - March 2019

## [Butterscotch Shenanigans](https://www.bscotch.net/games) - May 2019 to Present

- QA Playtesting through development and launch of [**Levelhead**](https://www.bscotch.net/games/levelhead), followed by an update to their entire catalog of games. Platforms tested include iOS, Android, Switch, Windows, and macOS

## Freelance

- Baseball Field Modeling and Rendering
- Game Jams hosted on [itch.io](https://brianisbrilliant.itch.io/)

TODO:
- Add description of work duties
- Add notable projects and links
- Add software proficiencies
- Add Awards
- Change the wall of Quickdraw text into a gallery of projects that can be expanded upon.

Commit message:

added Chartwells mockup to quickdraw resume

resume.md, after:

My name is Brian Foster. I have been studying, teaching, and working in the Interactive 3D field since 2013. I am passionate about this field of work because I enjoy creating something from nothing. I want to work on a project that will be remembered, the way that I remember Half-Life 2 or Dishonored. I want to create adventures like I found in Zelda: Breath of the Wild. Perhaps we can work together in the future!

# Programs:

I have a significant amount of experience in the **Unity 3D** game engine. I teach many classes for it, I have created many projects using it, and I have been a part of Certiport's certification team.
When I model I use **3DS Max**. I teach my Game Graphics class **Substance Designer** and I love it. In addition to programming in **C#** I teach classes in **Swift** and **C++**. Content creation is made easier with Adobe products such as **Photoshop**, **Premiere Pro**, and **Audition**.

# Work History

## [ButlerCC](https://www.butlercc.edu/info/201155/interactive-digital-and-3d-technology) - August 2014 to Present

- Interactive 3D adjunct professor - Fall 2014 to Fall 2016
	- Overhauled **Motion Capture** and **Interactive Scripting**
	- Created **Game Design 1 & 2**
- Interactive 3D professor - Spring 2017 to Present
	- Added **Virtual Reality**, **Mobile Game Development**, and **Mobile App Development**
	- Overhauled **Game Graphics** and **Beginning C++**
- Faculty Development Team - Fall 2015 to Present
	- Created and taught about 
		- Creating Hand-Written Videos
		- The Importance of Rigor
		- Teaching with Small Groups
		- [Making Better Videos](http://brianisbrilliant.com/bettervideos)


## [Quickdraw Studios](http://quickdrawstud.io/) - October 2015 to October 2017

- Co-founder, CTO
	- Developed & released **Gnome Wars** for The Hopping Gnome Brewery - October 2015
        - Used Unity and C# on this 6-month project. 4-player local co-op brawler.
	- Developed [**Riverfest: Sunny Days**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7TzLhonLQy8) - May 2016
        - Built this prototype in a weekend using Unity and C# for mobile devices.
	- Developed & released [**Pac-Matano**](https://www.facebook.com/events/district-marketplace/pac-matano/1070569443022550/) - June 2016
        - Used Unity and C# and a map API for a location-based experience similar to Pokemon Go, which came out a couple weeks after our game. The idea was developed at Riverfest Hackathon ICT 2016.
	- Developed & released **Ballot Battle** for The Joy of Voting - October 2016
        - Used Unity and C# to build another location-based experience.
	- Developed & released [**Trivia Nights**](https://www.quickdrawtrivia.com/) - 2016-2017
        - Used Unity and C# to create a Trivia Night Hosting app for the Clover registers that ran on Android.
	- Developed & released [**Space Slam**](https://store.steampowered.com/app/568480/Space_Slam/) - September 2016
        - I worked on some of the effects for this game, and did much of the preparation for launch on the PSVR, which did not cross the finish line in to production. Still, released for SteamVR on Steam. I also promoted the game at events like [XPOFest](https://twitter.com/gamesxpo), built promotional material and web pages, populated the steam web page, and sorted out the logistics behind uploading to Steam.
	- Developed **Sidewallz** Website & Product Customizer
        - Spent time learning Shopify's API and three.js to develop a website for a local business.
    - Developed and released [Focus Monitored](http://quickdrawstud.io/focusmonitored/), a focusing alarm app.
        - Built the app, published to the App Store, and built the webpage.
    - Unpublished Home Customization Idle Game
        - Built prototypes and design documents.
    - Unpublished Drink-around-the-Map game
        - Built design documents and sales pitch.
    - Unpublished Ordering App for Chartwells
	    - Built a schema/mockup for an ordering bid for WSU. 
    - Consulted for Builders Plus, VR exploration of construction sites, which later morphed into [Grit](https://www.gritvirtual.com)
        - Imported BIM worksites and drone footage photogrammetry into Unity for use with the HTC Vive. Cleaned up projects from Autodesk Revit for smooth framerate and reasonable collision in VR. Built a heatmap of user's viewpoints and locations.
	


## [Certiport ](https://certiport.pearsonvue.com/Certifications/Unity)

Subject Matter Expert for Job Training Analysis and Standard Setting on 

- Unity Certified Artist: Associate - Jan 2021
- Unity Certified Artist: User - May 2020
- Unity Certified VR Developer - May 2020
- Unity Certified User - March 2019

## [Butterscotch Shenanigans](https://www.bscotch.net/games) - May 2019 to Present

- QA Playtesting through development and launch of [**Levelhead**](https://www.bscotch.net/games/levelhead), followed by an update to their entire catalog of games. Platforms tested include iOS, Android, Switch, Windows, and macOS

## Freelance

- Baseball Field Modeling and Rendering
- Game Jams hosted on [itch.io](https://brianisbrilliant.itch.io/)

TODO:
- Add description of work duties
- Add notable projects and links
- Add software proficiencies
- Add Awards
- Change the wall of Quickdraw text into a gallery of projects that can be expanded upon.
